Update recommendations for lockfiles (#25)
ossf/package-manager-best-practices: review/npm.md

**Note**: The manifest file ***does not*** list transitive dependencies; it
lists only direct project dependencies.

### Project types

In the rest of this document, we will refer to three types of projects:

> - **Libraries**: These are projects published on the Npm registry and consumed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Libraries**: These are projects published on the npm registry and consumed
```

by other projects in the form of API calls. (Their manifest file 

> contains a `lib` entry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typically contains a `main`, `exports`, `browser`, `module`, and/or `types` entry).
```
(there's no such thing as a "lib" entry)

> - **Standalone CLIs**: These are projects published on the Npm registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Standalone CLIs**: These are projects published on the npm registry
```

and consumed by end-users in the form of locally installed programs. 
An example would be [clipboard-cli](https://github.com/sindresorhus/clipboard-cli).

> (Their manifest file contains a `main` entry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Their manifest file contains a `bin` entry).
```

- **Application projects**: These are projects that teams collaborate on in
development and deploy, such as web sites and/or web applications. 

> An example would be a React web app for a company's user-facing SaaS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example would be a React web app for a company's user-facing SaaS.
(Their manifest file typically contains `"private": true`)
```

Author: thanks

  proxy packages from public registries. Note: Versions are immutable in
  principle, but immutability is enforced by the registry.

> - Improve tthe accuracy of automated tools such as GitHub's security alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the accuracy of automated tools such as GitHub's security alerts.
```

> - Let maintainers test updates before accepting them in the `main` branch, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Let maintainers test updates before accepting them in the default branch, 
```

1. To add a dependency to a manifest file, ***locally*** run [`npm
   install --save <dep-name>`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-install).

> 1. If a project is a standalone CLI, developers may publish a shrinkwrap.json. 
>    Remember that, by declaring a shrinkwrap.json, you take responsibility 
>    for updating all the dependencies in time. Your users will not be able 
>    to update them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If a project is a standalone CLI, developers may publish an `npm-shrinkwrap.json`.
   Remember that, by declaring an `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, you take responsibility 
   for rapidly and consistently updating all the dependencies. Your users will not be able 
   to update or deduplicate them.
```

Author: fixed in the latest version. Thanks!

> 1. If a project is a library, a shrinkwrap.json should ***not*** be published. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If a project is a library, an `npm-shrinkwrap.json` should ***not*** be published. 
```

Author: fixed in latest version. Thanks!

   The reasoning is that version resolution should be left to the package consumer. 
   Allow all versions from the minimum to the latest you support, e.g.,
   `^m.n.o` to pin to a major range; `~m.n.o` to pin to a minor range. Avoid versions
   with critical vulnerabilities as much as possible. Visit the [semver
   calculator](https://semver.npmjs.com/) to help you define the ranges.

> 1. Projects that do no use a shrinkwrap.json (libraries, standalone CLIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Projects that do no use an `npm-shrinkwrap.json` (libraries, standalone CLIs,
```

Author: done, thanks

>    or application projects) should declare and commit a package-lock.json to their repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   or application projects) should declare and commit a `package-lock.json` (or other dev-only lockfile) to their repository. 
```
the parenthetical accounts for yarn/pnpm or other alternative npm CLIs.

   The reasoning is that this lockfile will provide the benefits highlighted in
   [Reproducible installation](#reproducible-installation) by default for privileged environments
   (project contributors' machines, CI, production or other environments with access to sensitive data, 
   such as secrets, PII, write/push permission to the repository, etc). To generate the lockfile:

>     1. Always generate a package-lock.json ***locally*** and commit it to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Always generate a `package-lock.json` ***locally*** and commit it to the
```

Author: thanks

1. To add a dependency to a manifest file, ***locally*** run [`npm
   install --save <dep-name>`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-install).

1. If a project is a library, an `npm-shrinkwrap.json` should ***not*** be published. 
   The reasoning is that version resolution should be left to the package consumer. 
   Allow all versions from the minimum to the latest you support, e.g.,
   `^m.n.o` to pin to a major range; `~m.n.o` to pin to a minor range. Avoid versions
   with critical vulnerabilities as much as possible. Visit the [semver
   calculator](https://semver.npmjs.com/) to help you define the ranges.

1. If a project is a standalone CLI, developers may publish an `npm-shrinkwrap.json`. 
   Remember that, by declaring an `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, you take responsibility 
   for updating all the dependencies in time. Your users will not be able 
   to update them. If you expect your CLI to be used by other projects and defined
   in their package.json or lockfile, do **not** use `npm-shrinkwrap.json` because it will
   hinder dependency resolution for your consumers.

1. Projects that do no use a `npm-shrinkwrap.json` (libraries, standalone CLIs

>    or application projects) should declare and commit a `package-lock.json` (or other dev-only lockfile) to their repository. 

Reviewer 2: This is not the best practice, similar to the shrinkwrap discussion, it depends on the type of project. So *only* applications should define a `package-lock.json` and commit it to their repos.

If libraries are using lockfiles they can accidentally publish versions which were only tested with outdated dependencies, so end users might break when they do a fresh install. The goal for library authors should be to have a CI system which does a "fresh" install so that a new user that just runs `npm i your-lib` will atleast at the time of publishing get the same experience you did in your tests.

For comparison, an application should use a lock file because for your users to "get the same experience as when authored" you need even rebuilds of the same source to produce consistent results. So the lockfile means a build from the same commit will get the same experience you intended at the time of publishing.

Author: you're right I botched the part on libraries. I was trying to say the following:

1.  A package-lock.json should be used and committed to the repo for all projects (reasoning: protect your developers' machines). 
2. Libraries should always ignore the lock file when running tests, and pay attention to running these tests in a non-privileged environment, e.g. via `npm install --no-package-lock`. **The problem is that many developers will run test locally anyway**
3. Applications should honor the lock file during tests, via `npm ci`

I'm trying to reconcile the comments in https://github.com/ossf/package-manager-best-practices/issues/24 (lockfiles to mitigate malicious dependencies on dev machines) and the fact that it should not be used on libraries (or in projects that `end up in other projects' manifest / lockfiles`).

Looking forward to your feedback / suggestion

Author: friendly ping for feedback

Reviewer 3: Not sure where this captures the actual legitimate use of shrinkwrap files, which is when building and shipping standalone CLIs.

Author: the text above was just a diff from the PR's content. shrinkwrap was already discussed. Can you take a look at the section `If a project is a standalone CLI:`?

Reviewer 3: Aaa yes I see it there now. Sorry, jumped too fast on this :-)

Author: @wesleytodd do you have further feedback? Are you OK with the changes?

Reviewer 2: Really sorry for dropping off here, I totally missed the notification.

I think what landed in the "recommendations" section is technically correct, so glad to see it got sorted out. One thing I do feel here is that it is a quite complicated set of recommendations. I sent the link to a team member at work and they basically just said "I will just remove the package-lock". I think this will be a common response because the guide is technically correct at the cost of being very complicated.

Anyway, like you said below:

> I think developers will do in practice regardless of what we say (e.g. when troubleshooting/repdoducing a problem). I think the intention is to raise awareness and encourage users to run these non-locked tests in CI/less-privileged env when possible.

👍

Author: I don't disagree that we could make the recommendation simpler. Do you think we should include more examples, and possibly links to an example repository which contains lock files, a workflows example, etc?

        1. To run tests, run [`npm
           install-ci-test`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npm-install-ci-test).

    1. If you need to run a standalone CLI package from the registry, ensure the package is a part of
       the dependencies defined in your project via the `package.json` file, prior to
       being installed at build-time in your CI or otherwise automated environment.

1. In **non-privileged environments**, maintainers may **ignore** the lockfile. This is particularly useful in
   situations where they want to exercise a wide range of dependency versions in order to discover / fix problems before
   their users do. This is useful for maintainers of libraries and standalone CLI projects

>    without a shrinkwrap.json. The reasoning is that many downstream users will use `npm install` to install a dependency,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   without an `npm-shrinkwrap.json`. The reasoning is that many downstream users will use `npm install` to install a dependency,
```

Author: thanks

   so using floating versions in (non-privileged) tests can be beneficial.
   
   1. If you run CI via GitHub Actions, a non-privileged environment is a workflow **without** access to GitHub secrets and with its

>    permissions defined as `permissions: read-all` at the top of the workflow. 

Reviewer: i think there's a lot of other permissions values besides "read-all" where this may be valid? eg https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm/blob/master/.github/workflows/latest-npm.yml#L27, https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm/blob/6cc90a4b8daa44ad3050828c2bf98fa77a16bf90/.github/workflows/shellcheck.yml#L47, etc.

Author: Done, PTAL

      calculator](https://semver.npmjs.com/) to help you define the ranges.

   1. The lockfile `package-lock.json` ***should*** be ignored for tests running in CI

>       (e.g. via `npm install --no-package-lock`). The reasoning is that CI tests should

Reviewer: to be fair tho, this is also true for developers, despite the (relatively small) risk to their local machines.

Author: I don't entirely disagree. I think developers will do in practice regardless of what we say (e.g. when troubleshooting). I think the intention is to raise awareness and encourage users to run these non-locked tests in CI/less-privileged env when possible. 

Let me know if you think we should change it or if this is acceptable as-is.
